---
title: Halloween observations
subtitle:
date: 2024-11-02T20:31:40+09:00
slug: 1be560b
draft: false
description:
keywords:
license:
comment: true
weight: 0
tags: ["daily","japan"]
categories: ["daily","japan"]
collections: ["the life of japan"]
hiddenFromHomePage: false
hiddenFromSearch: false
hiddenFromRss: false
hiddenFromRelated: false
summary:
resources:
  - name: featured-image
    src: featured-image.jpg
  - name: featured-image-preview
    src: featured-image-preview.jpg
toc: true
math: false
lightgallery: false
message:
repost:
  enable: false
  url:

# See details front matter: https://fixit.lruihao.cn/documentation/content-management/introduction/#front-matter
---
As an introvert, I generally don't go out because I've always had a fear of crowds and dislike going to places with many people; I prefer quiet places. However, because it was Halloween, I decided to go out and experience different cultures, to feel the impact.
<!--more-->
# 1. The Blind Man on the Train
Today, on Halloween, while on the train to Shinjuku, I saw a blind man traveling alone, which shocked me a bit. In China, I had never seen a blind person traveling alone on the subway; they are usually accompanied by family members, or they simply don't go out and are kept at home like livestock.

I took the Oedo Line that day. It's considered the deepest subway line in Tokyo. I wondered how the blind person managed to get onto the platform. Sitting on the train, as usual, I watched the doors slowly open, and the first thing I saw was a white cane. I instantly realized this person was blind. I looked around to see if anyone was accompanying him, but he was alone. The blind man, with his cane, moved skillfully. After boarding, he cautiously probed with his cane to check if anyone was sitting in that spot. Finding it empty, he confirmed with one hand that no one was there, then held onto the railing, turned, and sat down. He then took out his phone, put on wired headphones, and skillfully operated the device. With the headphones on and his leg shaking, I guessed he was listening to music. After a while, he skillfully opened his bag and took out a chocolate from it.

On Tokyo's trains, I've seen not only this person with a disability but also those in wheelchairs. Those in wheelchairs are assisted by staff when boarding the train. Moreover, I've never seen the blind lanes in Tokyo end abruptly like in China.

Because bicycles in Tokyo cannot be parked arbitrarily, there's no issue with them occupying the blind lanes, and cars are even less likely to do so. This, to some extent, facilitates the travel of the blind.

# 2. The Main Battleground of Halloween

It wasn't long before I arrived in Shinjuku. The first thing I felt was how crowded it was. How should I navigate through this? I spent a long time with a map trying to figure out my way, and finally found the entrance to Kabukicho Ichiban Street. As I walked along the road, I occasionally saw a few cosplayers, followed by security guards and police cars constantly using loudspeakers to persuade people not to stand still and to keep moving to prevent gatherings. I guess this is to prevent stampedes, especially considering the serious incident in Itaewon, South Korea. Shibuya in Tokyo even started closing roads two days in advance.

Occasionally going out for a stroll feels pretty good, observing people from various countries cosplaying a wide array of characters. One person was dressed as a chainsaw murderer, and a girl who saw him was terrified, haha. There were also people cosplaying as Red Guards, but these individuals were Japanese and Westerners. If they were Chinese, it would be a knockout. After spending some time on Kabukicho Street and finding it uninteresting, I decided to head to Shibuya.

Shibuya's streets are narrower, with even more people and a noticeably higher number of cosplayers. I felt a bit uneasy, fearing a potential stampede, but fortunately, the terrain is relatively flat with little undulation, so incidents like those in Itaewon are unlikely to occur.

However, seeing the stairs packed with people, I thought they were quite dangerous, so I tried to avoid stairs and only walk on flat surfaces, haha, after all, safety first.


